This page provide a short inroduction to some of the architectures that can be intresting for the GitBuddy application

## Layered architecture
The layered architecture is often centered around a database and the data will flow through layers as it is passed from the database to the client or vice versa. The layers is divided into clearly separated tasks with as little dependencies as possible between the layers. Oftentimes the layered architecture consists of four layers, presentation, business, persistence, and database.  

A core principle of the layered architecture is that the data has to flow through all layers. This is called *layer of isolation*. This concept generally means that changes in one layer will not affect other layers and thus, makes it easier to develop and maintain. Due to this developers can work on different layers in isolation of each other.

This pattern is a solid pattern that will work for most applications. It is easy to develop and maintain and can be a good starting point for an application even if the architecture will change in the future.  
However, there is the *architecture sinkhole anti-pattern* which due to the fact that even the simplest data flow has to travel through all the layers and thus, some layers will just act as pass-through layers that does nothing but forward the data to the next layer without altering it. A good rule of thumb is 80-20 rule where 20% of the requests is pass-through and 80% does some computation of data through the layers. If you find yourself with the reverse ratio you may consider another pattern.

## Event-driven architecture
The asyncronous nature of this pattern makes it suitable for both simple and complex applications. This makes it highly scalable.

It is made up of decoupled and single-purposed event driven components. It can be implemented in two ways, either the mediator or the broker.

The mediator type of event-driven architecture is used when the events needs orchestration. It consist of a central point that gets an event and then handles all other events making sure that they are executed in the right order. The processes that react on the events from the mediator does not know of any other processes or any other mediators than the one it communicates with. This pattern is suitable for larger more complex applications.

The broker type of event-driven architecture is more loose in who gets to send an event. Usually there will be a hub that handles the event flow and the event-processor component can react on events as well as sending their own events. This means that when a requests hits the broker all event-processors that listens to that event will get triggered. In turn they will send other events that other event-processors may listen and react to. This also means that some processors may send events that none is listening to, like if there is features not yet implemented and such.

## Microkernel architecture
This pattern is good for applications that is aimed to be extended with plugins. Usually it suits applications that will be packaged and  downloaded. This pattern allows for extensions, or, plugins to be added to the application. It consists of two components, the core systems and the plug-in components. 

The core system is usually just the basics to get the application working and on top of that, extra plug-ins is added to get extra features and functionality. The plug-in components is its own separate units that preforms one specific task. Although there is nothing wrong with making plug-in components dependent on each other. 

The plug-ins is usually collected in some kind of registry where they will be available for download/installation to the core component.

A computer operating system is often built this way in order to make it possible to install other software on you machine.
The same goes for Visual Studio Code, an editor that you can write text in but it also have a variety of plug-ins to be added to the core software.

This pattern can be combined with other patterns in a fairly smooth way. A downside is that this pattern can be very difficult to develop and maintain. Small changes in the core system can affect the plug-ins in a negative way.

## Microservices architecture
This architectural pattern is fairly new and is still evolving. In basic terms this patterns divides parts of the application in its own small separately deployed units. It is like dividing the application into many smaller applications that will run independent of each other. They often communicate through a REST-API and it is the web of communication between these separate units, or processes that makes up the application.

A huge benefit with this pattern is that each unit can be developed, tested and deployed completely independent of all the other units. And since it is its own process, maybe even on a completely different host there will be little to no compatibility issues when a new release of a micro service is deployed.

A drawback of this pattern is that it can be slow. It is generally not a good pattern for application that needs to run fast.


## Space-based architecture
Builds on the fact that most web applications follows the same pattern with a web server receiving client requests, forwards to the application server which then communicates with the database. This kind of set up can be hard to scale. Especially the database that will be the main bottleneck. Space-based architecture solves this problem by minimizing the factors that make scaling of applications difficult. It is doing so by removing the database from the application and instead storing information in-memory which is replicated across the applications platform.

This pattern consists of two components, the processing-units and the virtualized middlewares.
The processing-units can be started and taken down easily which means that the application easily can scale up if the dataflow gets high. The processor-units also share the same in-memory data which make data fetching incredibly fast. It is the virtual middlewares that orcestrates over the processor-units. Each middleware has its own task. t can be messaging, updating data to all processing-units an starting and stopping processor-units.

This pattern is well suited for smaller web applications with spikes in loads. The pattern can be hard to maintain for larger applications. It is also a fairly hard pattern to implement and puts high demands on the developers.


