## What is a web application?

A web application can be described as an application that is fetched from a web server and run by a browser rather than a separate executable file (a native app) downloaded and run by the operating system. 
Some key difference between a web app and a native app is that for the web app the code running the app is fetched from a server via a browser and is able to be reloaded and hence, downloaded once more (if it is not cached in the browser). It also has the ability to pre-render content on the server before sending the app to the browser. 

A native app is downloaded to the device and run locally, if updates are needed an updated version must be downloaded and replacing the old one.
On the other hand a web app will not have the same access to the OS api's that the native apps will have. 

## What does web application architecture mean?

It is the way that we organize the application. What parts the application will consist of and how these parts will communicate with each other. It can be how classes will be organized to what services will be running. 

### What does a web application architecture include?
It includes the subsystems that the web application consists of and the relationships between them.

### How have architectures for web applications developed over time?
In the beginning there were only static sites on the web and not much traffic. The only requirements was a web server serving the static pages.
As the web progresses with more functionality, higher loads and higher demands more complex architectures are needed. The developers started to separate the different parts of the application (such as web server, application server and database) in isolation to each other. Today, with cloud based solutions, they can even be in completely different regions of the world. Now more than ever is the term separation of concern  a reality. 

## What architectural (anti) design patterns are there for web applications?
Sink-hole anti pattern, spaghetti code. 

## Which is considered the most common architectural design pattern?
It seems that the Layered architecture, or n-tier architecture, is the most common design pattern. An example of this is the MVC pattern. 

## What does a big ball of mud (BBoM) mean?
BBoM refers to a software codebase that is so big and unstructured to the degree that it is (or almost) unmaintainable.

