This page answers some questions about server side of a web application.

### What does serverless architecture refer to?
There is not a unified answer to what serverless actually means. But it boil downs to outsource part of the backend to an organisation or company. It can be the whole backend to just the usual backend logic like servers, loadbalancers ans such. Some serverless architectures lets you run you own code but helps setting it up properly and handles the scalability.

Backend services can be bought in completely. It can be outsourced to companies that handles the kind of services the application is in need of. An example can be a web shop that rely on serverless architecture to manage database and product related storage and catalouges. It is also common that payment is also boutht in as a service. The benefit of this is that the developers of the application does not need to develop nor maintain a backend service. A draw back is that the application will be highly dependent on the service and may suffer if agreements/subscriptions changes.
More on serverless can be found [here](https://martinfowler.com/articles/serverless.html)

### What's the trend over the last years where a web application's code is placed?
The increase of popularity of the client side frameworks leans towards a trend in moving the code from the server over to the client. [[1]](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=react&package=vue&package=%40angular%2Fcore&from=2014-12-12&to=2020-12-28)  
This trend seems to increase but there is also a demand for server side rendering as well. The rise of Next.js is an example of this. Next.js is built on React.js but lets the developer prerender content on the server before shipping it off to the client. [[2]](https://nextjs.org/)

### What's a server-side web framework (a.k.a. "web application framework")?
A server-side framework is a tool to make developent of web services easier. The goal is to abstract much of the complicated implementation of a web server. The frameworks can also make the scalability of the web application easier. [[3]](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/First_steps/Web_frameworks)

### What can a server-side web framework do for you?
The abstraction of the complicated implementation of a web server is abstracted away by a server-side framework. Functionality like pare incomming requests bodys and url are oftentimes handled smoothly by the framework and is made avilable to the developer in a user friendly way. 

### What's the difference between an ORM and an ODM?
ORM, or Object Relational Mapping, is a common strategy when working with relational databases. Instead of interacting with the database by sending SQL queries the queries are wrapped in objects that represents the database that will handle the queries for you. This means that faults by programmers writing faulty queries minimizes since the actual query string to the database is abstracted by the object. If faulty behaviour is implied using the object, the object will handle that and preventing the system from crashing.

ODM, Object Document Mapping is used when working with document databases. It is the same thing as ORM for relational databases. It will handle the communication between the application and the database. [[4]](https://medium.com/spidernitt/orm-and-odm-a-brief-introduction-369046ec57eb)

### What factors may affect your selection of a server-side web framework?
Selecting a framework can be a tough decition. You have to do it early on in the development process and once decided, it will be extremelty hard to change in the future. Some areas in consideration when choosing framwork is:  
**Size** - The size of the project can be important. If it is a simple and small application a easy to understand framework might be good. But on the other hand, if the application grows large the easy and simple frameworks may not be modular enough.  
**Security** Some frameworks has built in security and some does not. When choosing framework the security aspect should be of concern. Do you want to implement is by your self and tailor it as you want or do you leave that to the developers of the framework?  
**Type of project** - The type of project can also affect what server side framework is most suitable. Soem frameworks do combind backend and frontend and can be a great alternative if it fits the application. But in other cases, like for a REST api, clientside code is often not desireable. 

### Whats server-side web frameworks are there for programming languages such as Phyton, Java, JavaScript, C#, PHP, Ruby, etc.?
  **Python** - Django, Flask  
  **Java** - Spring, JSF  
  **Ruby** - Rails  
  * Frameworks for persistent data?  
    A few examples are Hibernate for Java and pyMysql for Python

### What frameworks are there for Node.js, except for Express?
Next.js is kind of a serverside framework even though it is not at the same level as Express. Meteor.js is also a Node.js framework for server development.
  * Frameworks for persistent data?   
  Mongoose is a popular framework for communication with a MongoDb database.